we're back with Vice President Joe Biden
mr. vice president thank you for being
with us now let's move on to what a
crisis that many call the greatest
crisis since World War two for the
United States 63,000 Americans have died
in this pandemic and I could ask you
what you were going to do in the
abstract but the fact is if you are
elected president in November then
chances are very good if dr. Falchi and
other doctors are right you are going to
be sitting in the Oval Office when this
pandemic comes back again in the middle
of flu season how should America prepare
for the second wave that dr. Falchi says
could be even worse than the first
should be preparing now look Joe one of
the things I've said from the beginning
the president should empower a supply
officer someone who is in charge of
making sure that all the material needed
all the PPP all that all the testing all
the things we know we have to get done
are getting done and use the create the
defense production act for and make sure
that we also deal with the with the
banking side of this to make sure all
the things that in fact the Congress the
trillion dollar several Journal of
dollars they they put out there to help
businesses small businesses stay alive
actually get to small business I'd also
establish a pandemic testing board to
finally solve the testing problem
III dopin up a new enrollment period for
health care I would also you know some
early data shows African Americans and
communities of color have contracted
this disease and died at alarming rates
and I I get economic relief quickly as
we can to the most those most in need to
diminish the impact of this but we have
to have that materials Joe we have to
have an everything from enough swabs to
the reagents the testing capacity to
mass to gloves to so I know and it's and
he's going so slowly on this how do you
speed up testing the president says it's
impossible the HHS official in charge of
testing says it's an
possible to get five million tests at a
per day
what could the president have done from
the very beginning more importantly what
advice do you give President Trump this
morning on what he should do from this
point forward to make the United States
stronger in the area of testing not only
for the virus but for antibodies well
first of all he should take
responsibility he's in charge he talks
about being the commander in chief in
the defense production act as I said way
back several months ago gives him the
authority to surge in any to any private
entity that they should be making like
ventilators like he went to General
Motors finally they should be doing the
same thing for everything from swabs to
the reagents he talks about all these
machines being available the machines
are available to test but the reagents
and the swabs and the material that get
the answer are not available
he should be moving very quickly to have
done that he should be making sure that
we have a stockpile of all the
protective gear that is needed in order
to make sure that god forbid that this
does come back which it probably will
that the hospitals are not left
flat-footed like they were before that
the first responders are covered so many
of those over 60,000 people who died Joe
were first responders there were doctors
they were there are nurses they were
medics there were police officers there
are firefighters etc they didn't have
the equipment so we have to get we have
to get the number of new cases down from
what it is now
in order to be in begin to be able to
take control but in the meantime we
cannot let up on what needs to be done
you know one of the things the every
morning this morning I did and I get a
brief from medical Doc's on the state of
the status of where things are and
you know the former head of the anyway
one of the things that were stated the
analogy made he said there's all these
machines well it's like having a washing
machine where there's no water and
there's and you don't have any any
detergent there are machines but you
need the material
why aren't why isn't he insisting that
that be moved quickly and insist that
this this begin to happen and there's
there's so much not being done Joe to
not only deal with what we have in our
hands now but to prepare for when this
is going to come back yeah thanks for
checking out MSNBC on YouTube and make
sure you subscribe to stay up-to-date on
the day's biggest stories and you can
click on any of the videos around us to
watch more 4 Morning Joe and MSNBC
thanks so much for watching